Title: On Doctor Who and Cosmic Harmony
Slug: on-doctor-who-and-cosmic-harmony
Date: 2013-11-25 11:01:51
Tags: humour, doctor who


Doctor Who is 50 years old as of two days ago, and the celebrations have been going strong.  From documentaries on the life of the First Doctor, William Hartnell, to guest lectures on time travelling science by Brian Cox, and of course the grand event, the 50th Anniversary Special Episode.  All very exciting, really.

And, as with any big celebration, it is natural for people to be rather profuse in their congratulations of the show.  As a vast array of celebrities from the most minor to the most major, including a worrying number of teen boy bands, queued up to express admiration for Matt Smith's hair, it was perhaps expected that some people would push the boundaries of tripe to truly unimaginable levels.

As a fairly committed fan of Doctor Who, and a much, much more committed fan of my own voice, I thought I should take a quick look at some of this tripe.  After all, a lot of it was spouted by Americans, who just don't understand the British way of absolute stoicism in the face of all emotion.  When discussing such British classics as Doctor Who, any sense of feeling or passion should have been drained away a long time ago.  Really, the amount of meaning in many comments on the show would disappointment to my eyes, if disappointment were not too emotive a feeling to actually feel.

However, in my attempt to overanalyse these overanalyses, I realised something worryingly deep and meaningful about myself.  Well, I didn't, I just say that.  But I did realise that Doctor Who is a damn good television show.  Sure there's some stuff that's really rather over the top.  I direct this particularly at the 12-year-old American featured on the Doctor Who Afterparty who was about to get married.  His comments were really worryingly over the top.  Ultimately, though, I think we can all forgive those who get slightly carried away.  It is after all a relatively auspicious occasion: only a month and two days until Christmas.

So I'm going to ignore these transgressions, and merely present to you a proper, emotionless congratulation of this long-running show:

Eh, it's done quite well to get this far.
